Q1: How do Google Docs solve the problem of simultaneous writing?
When two or more users are working in a file simultaneously directly in the server, Google Docs allows multiple editing though an algorith called operational transform. 

The basic idea of OT can be illustrated by using a simple text editing scenario as follows. Given a text document with a string "abc" replicated at two collaborating sites; and two concurrent operations:

O1 = Insert[0, "x"] (to insert character "x" at position "0")
O2 = Delete[2, "c"] (to delete the character "c" at position "2")
generated by two users at collaborating sites 1 and 2, respectively. Suppose the two operations are executed in the order of O1 and O2 (at site 1). After executing O1, the document becomes "xabc". To execute O2 after O1, O2 must be transformed against O1 to become: O2' = Delete[3, "c"], whose positional parameter is incremented by one due to the insertion of one character "x" by O1. Executing O2' on "xabc" deletes the correct character "c" and the document becomes "xab". However, if O2 is executed without transformation, it incorrectly deletes character "b" rather than "c". The basic idea of OT is to transform (or adjust) the parameters of an editing operation according to the effects of previously executed concurrent operations so that the transformed operation can achieve the correct effect and maintain document consistency.  
REF:(http://blog.rabidgremlin.com/)

When two or more users are, for example, working offline in a document and when they try to submit the modifications simultaneously google docs will save the modifications of the user that downloand the document first. For the second user will be presented a message of conflicting file, an option for comparisson of files is provided and he can decided what to replace or mantain in the document.

Q2: Discuss which model used in Google Docs?

(a)   Remote Access Model (b) Download/Upload

In the Remote Acess Model the files stay only on the server, the client sends commands to perform a determined work in the server file. On the other hand, in the Upload/Download the client upload and download files from the server, works on it, and write back the modifications. Google docs use the metod of upload/download files between the user's computer and Google servers. The 'Google Drive Client' must be installed in the user's computer to comminicate with a Google server, causing updates on one side will be propagated in other, whether the client create/edit a file locally or directly in the Google Server through a browser.

